opentok-titanium-mobile
================
A module for the Titanium Mobile platform that uses the Opentok iOS SDK for video streaming capabilities.

Installation
------------
1.  Clone or download the repo, run `./build.py` in the directory

2.  Copy the zip (`com.tokbox.ti.opentok-iphone-x.x.zip`) to your Titanium installation directory: `cp com.tokbox.ti.opentok-iphone-x.x.zip /Library/Application\ Support/Titanium/`.

Usage
-----
1.  Declare the module and the asset path in in your `tiapp.xml` file:

    ```xml
    <modules>
      <module version="0.1">com.tokbox.ti.opentok</module>
    </modules>
    <ios>
      <plist>
        <dict>
          <key>OTAssetBundlePath</key>
          <string>modules/com.tokbox.ti.opentok</string>
        </dict>
      </plist>
    </ios>
    ```
	
2.  Load the module in your application

    ```javascript
    var opentok = require('com.tokbox.ti.opentok');
    ```
	
3.  Create and connect to a session

    ```javascript
    var CONFIG = {
      apiKey: '...',    // Get from Opentok website ()
      sessionId: '...', // Generated by server-side SDK
      token: '...'      // Generated by server-size SDK
    };
    var session = opentok.createSession({ sessionId: "..." });
    session.connect(CONFIG.apiKey, CONFIG.token);
    ```
	
4.  For more details, see the [documentation directory](opentok-titanium-mobile/tree/master/documentation) and the [example directory](opentok-titanium-mobile/tree/master/example).

Requirements
------------
*  Titanium SDK 2.1 or later

*  iOS SDK 5.0 or later

*  Opentok API Key. See [Documentation](http://www.tokbox.com/opentok/api/tools/js/apikey).

*  Opentok.framework requires projects to be built for only i386 (simulator) and armv7 (device).

Notes
-----
*  If you are building for the device for the first time you may see the following error:

   > [ERROR] clang: error: linker command failed with exit code 1 (use -v to see invocation)

   This can be because Titanium is trying to compile for armv6, which is unsupported. See the [Wiki Page](opentok-titanium-mobile/wiki/Removing-armv6-from-your-Titanium-Project) for two ways to solve this.

*  Opentok.framework can be downloaded from the [official repo](https://github.com/opentok/opentok-ios-sdk)

*  Publishing is not supported in the Simulator because it does not have access to your webcam.

*  The API is currently a mix of the Opentok web API, iOS specifics, and Titanium conventions. These are subject
   to change. Suggestions welcome.

*  open source contributions welcome :)

License
-------
Copyright (c) 2012 TokBox, Inc.
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of
this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in 
the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to 
use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies 
of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do 
so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all 
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

The software complies with Terms of Service for the OpenTok platform described 
in http://www.tokbox.com/termsofservice

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR 
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, 
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE 
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER 
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, 
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE 
SOFTWARE.

