# opentok Module

## Description

Opentok is an API to stream live video to and from your App on mobile and on the web. [Find out more online](http://www.tokbox.com/opentok/api).

## Accessing the opentok Module

To access this module from JavaScript, you would do the following:

	var opentok = require("com.tokbox.ti.opentok");

The opentok variable is a reference to the Module object.	

## Reference

### Module

#### Methods

##### _opentok.createSession(props)_

Create a Session object. A Session is a collection of streams that the user can interact with. Only one Session at a time is supported.

*  Parameters:
    *  __props__ (Object):
        * __sessionId__ (String) _required_ - Session ID. This is generated by a server-side SDK.
        * __environment__ (String) _optional_ - OpenTok environment to start this Session. Possible values: "staging", "production". Defaults to "staging".
*  Return - (Session)
       
### Session

#### Methods

##### _session.connect(apiKey, token)_

Connect to an OpenTok session. This must be done before you can do anything else with a session.

*  Parameters:
    * __apiKey__ (String) _required_ - OpenTok API Key. Get one [here](http://www.tokbox.com/opentok/api/tools/js/apikey)
    * __token__ (String) _required_ - User Token. This is generated by a server-side SDK.
*  Return - void

##### _session.disconnect()_

Disconnect to an OpenTok session.

*  Return - void

##### _session.publish(props)_

Begin publishing video data from the device's camera to the Session.

*  Parameters:
    *  __props__ (Object):
        * __name__ (String) _optional_ - A name for the stream being created in the Session. The name is readable to others connected to the Session. Defaults to device name.
        * __publishAudio__ (Boolean) _optional_ - Whether or not the publisher sends audio. Defaults to true.
        * __publishVideo__ (Boolean) _optional_ - Whether or not the publisher sends video. Defaults to true.
*  Return - (Publisher)

##### _session.unpublish()_

Stop publishing to the session.

*  Return - void

##### _session.subscribe(stream, props)_

Begin receiving video data from another device's camera who is publishing to the Session.

*  Parameters:
    *  __stream__ (Stream) _required_ - A Stream object that refers to the video data from another device.
    *  __props__ (Object) _optional_:
        * __subscribeToAudio__ (Boolean) _optional_ - Whether or not to subscribe to the audio data. Defaults to true.
        * __subscribeToVideo__ (Boolean) _optional_ - Whether or not to subscribe to the video data. Defaults to true.
*  Return - (Subscriber)

#### Properties

##### _session.sessionId_

(String) The Session ID for this Session object. This is only writable before _session.connect(apiKey, token)_ is called.

##### _session.streams_

(Array<Stream>) A collection of all the Streams currently in the Session. _Read Only_

##### _session.sessionConnectionStatus_

(String) The state of the session. Possible values: "connected", "connecting", "disconnected", "failed". _Read Only_

##### _session.connectionCount_

(Number) The number of connections in the Session. _Read Only_

##### _session.environment_

(String) The OpenTok environment that the session will connect to. This is only writable when the _sessionConnectionStatus_ is "disconnected".

#### Events

##### _sessionConnected_

This event is fired when the _session.connect(props)_ call has resulted in a successful connection.

##### _sessionDisconnected_

This event is fired when the _session.disconnect(props)_ call has completed.

##### _sessionFailed_

This event is fired when a session is disconnected for any reason other than a call to _session.disconnect(props)_

*  TODO: Describe how to read error description

##### _streamCreated_

This event is fired when a new stream is available in the session. This happens when a connected device (this device or others) publishes.

*  Event Properties:
    *  event.stream (Stream) - The stream that was just created.

##### _streamDestroyed_

This event is fired when a stream leaves a session. This can happen when a publishing device (this one or others) unpublishes or disconnects.

*  Event Properties:
    *  event.stream (Stream) - The stream that was just destroyed.

### Stream

#### Properties

##### _stream.connection_

(Connection) The Connection object that corresponds to the origin of this Stream. _Read Only_

##### _stream.creationTime_

(Date) The time when this Stream was created. _Read Only_

##### _stream.hasAudio_

(Boolean) Whether or not there is audio available in this stream. _Read Only_

##### _stream.hasVideo_

(Boolean) Whether or not there is video available in this stream. _Read Only_


##### _stream.session_

(Session) The Session object where this Stream is contained. _Read Only_

##### _stream.streamId_

(String) An identifier for this Stream. This is created automatically by OpenTok. _Read Only_

##### _stream.type_

(String) A stream can be one of three types: "basic", "multiplexed", and "archive". _Read Only_

### Connection

#### Properties

##### _connection.connectionId_

(String) An identifier for this Connection. This is created automatically by OpenTok. It is useful for comparing a _stream.connection.connectionId_ to the _session.connection.connectionId_, if they are equal then the stream originates from this device. _Read Only_

##### _connection.creationTime_

(Date) The time the connection was created.

### Publisher

#### Methods

##### _publisher.createView(props)_

A publisher can stream data without being displayed in the UI. In order to display the video of the publisher, you must create a view from it. This method creates that view. It is a subtype of Ti.UI.View.

*  Parameters:
    *  __props__ (Object) _optional_ - Properties of Ti.UI.View that are inherited by the PublisherView (See <http://docs.appcelerator.com/titanium/2.1/index.html#!/api/Titanium.UI.View>)
*  Return - (PublisherView)

#### Properties

##### _publisher.publishAudio_

(Boolean) Whether or not the publisher is publishing audio data to the session. _Read Only_

##### _publisher.publishVideo_

(Boolean) Whether or not the publisher is publishing video data to the session. _Read Only_

##### _publisher.name_

(String) The name that was assigned to the publisher when it was created. _Read Only_

##### _publisher.session_

(Session) The session that this publisher is streaming data to. _Read Only_

##### _publisher.cameraPosition_

(String) If the device contains more than one camera, this option lets you set which one the publisher should stream from. Possible values are "cameraFront" or "cameraBack".

##### _publisher.view_

(PublisherView) If _publisher.createView(props)_ has been called on the Publisher, this property will return a reference to that same view. Otherwise it returns null.

#### Events

##### _publisherStarted_

This event is fired when the publisher begins streaming data to the session. Note that the Session will also fire the "streamCreated" event for the resulting stream.

##### _publisherStopped_

This event is fired when the publisher stops streaming data to the session. Note that the Session will also fire the "streamDestroyed" event for the stream that is being removed from the Session.

##### _publisherFailed_

This event is fired when an error is encountered.

*  Event Properties:
    *  event.error (Error) - Use event.error.message to see the reason for the publisher failing.

### Subscriber

#### Methods

##### _subscriber.createView(props)_

A subscriber can subscribe to data without being displayed in the UI. In order to display the video of the subscriber, you must create a view from it. This method creates that view. It is a subtype of Ti.UI.View.

*  Parameters:
    *  __props__ (Object) _optional_ - Properties of Ti.UI.View that are inherited by the SubscriberView (See <http://docs.appcelerator.com/titanium/2.1/index.html#!/api/Titanium.UI.View>)
*  Return - (SubscriberView)

##### _subscriber.close()_

Disconnects the Subscriber from the Session. The SubscriberViews associated with this Subscriber will now be invalid and should be removed from the UI.

#### Properties

##### _subscriber.stream_

(Stream) The stream that this subscriber is created from. _Read Only_

##### _subscriber.subscribeToAudio_

(Boolean) Whether or not the subscriber is subscribing to audio data in the stream. _Read Only_

##### _subscriber.subscribeToVideo_

(Boolean) Whether or not the subscriber is subscribing to video data in the stream. _Read Only_

##### _subscriber.session_

(Session) The session that this subscriber is streaming data from. _Read Only_

##### _subscriber.view_

(SubscriberView) If _subscriber.createView(props)_ has been called on this Subscriber, this property will return a reference to that same view. Otherwise it returns null.

#### Events

##### _subscriberStarted_

This event is fired when the first frame of video or audio data has been recieved and decoded.

##### _subscriberConnected_

This event is fired when the subscriber sucessfully connects to the stream.

##### _subscriberFailed_

This event is fired when an error is encountered.

*  Event Properties:
    *  event.error (Error) - Use event.error.message to see the reason for the subscriber failing.

### PublisherView

'PublisherView's are simply subtypes of 'Ti.UI.View's that have the same properties, methods, and events. They are constructed from the _publisher.createView(props)_ method.

### SubscriberView

'SubscriberView's are simply subtypes of 'Ti.UI.View's that have the same properties, methods, and events. They are constructed from the _subscriber.createView(props)_ method.

## Usage

## License

Copyright (c) 2012 TokBox, Inc.
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of
this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in 
the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to 
use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies 
of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do 
so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all 
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

The software complies with Terms of Service for the OpenTok platform described 
in http://www.tokbox.com/termsofservice

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR 
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, 
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE 
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER 
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, 
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE 
SOFTWARE.

